src/lab/1.adoc, before:

---
title: "Binary and Graphics"
description:
  Get practice with binary and computer data representation. Then explore some
  examples of graphic programs using a simple graphics library.
priority: 0.5
changefreq: monthly
layout: single.hbt
spelling_exceptions:
  - futz
  - Lawrence Angrave
  - Lab1
sidebar: lab
---

:sectnums:
:linkattrs:

[.lead]
//
This lab starts by exploring the basics of how computers represent
information&mdash;including binary notation.
//
It continues by exploring how to create computer graphics in Java using a
simple graphics library.

[[binary]]
== Binary Games [.text-muted]#(50 Minutes)#

[.lead]
//
Let's learn more about binary and how computers represent numbers and other
kinds of data.

Complete this part of the lab in pairs using Google Docs.
//
Create a copy of https://goo.gl/6biwZU[our document template], and then edit it
to record you and your partner's answers.
//
Have a course staff member check your answers as you go.
//
When you are done, move on to the next section.

'''

[[zen]]
== Graphical Exploration [.text-muted]#(60 Minutes)#

[.lead]
//
Now let's experiment with some Java code!

These examples use the Zen graphics library authored by Illinois CS faculty
member
//
https://cs.illinois.edu/directory/profile/angrave[Lawrence Angrave].
//
You can find the
//
https://github.com/cs125-illinois/Zen[Zen source code]
//
and
//
https://cs125-illinois.github.io/Zen/[documentation]
//
on https://github.com/[GitHub].

Work with _a different partner_ as you explore the Zen library and its
capabilities.

=== Cloning the Lab1 Eclipse Project

++++
<div class="row justify-content-center mt-3 mb-3">
  <div class="col-12 col-lg-8">
    <div class="embed-responsive embed-responsive-4by3">
      <iframe class="embed-responsive-item" width="560" height="315" src="//www.youtube.com/embed/DjuoOQWrjVc" allowfullscreen></iframe>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>
++++

We've set up an Eclipse Project that's correctly configured for Lab 1.
//
The only problem is&mdash;it's on
https://github.com/cs125-illinois/Lab1[_GitHub_].
//
This is intentional.
//
Although we're using Subversion this semester, we wanted to give you a chance to
practice importing a project in another way.
//
But don't worry, we'll walk you through the steps required to get a local copy
of it below.
//
And Eclipse already has great Git integration, so there are no plugins to futz
around with.

. In Eclipse, open "File &rarr; Import &rarr; Git &rarr; Projects from Git"
//
. Choose "Clone URI". This will allow us to retrieve a repository from a remote
URL, in this case one pointing to GitHub.
//
. Go to https://github.com/cs125-illinois/Lab1[this GitHub link]. Click on
"Clone or Download", make sure that "Clone with HTTPS" is selected, and copy the
URL to your clipboard.
//
It should be this one:
//
link:https://github.com/cs125-illinois/Lab1.git[https://github.com/cs125-illinois/Lab1.git, role="noclick link_exception"].
//
. Copy that link into the "URI" field in the open Eclipse dialog. All other
required fields should be populated for you.
//
. Click next and choose to work with the master branch, which should be selected
by default.
//
. Pick a directory where you want to store these files and click next.
//
. Leave "Import existing Eclipse projects" selected and click next.
//
. At this point you should be able to click "Finish" and start working with our
Lab1 project in Eclipse.

=== Graphical Explorations

At this point you should have a working copy of our Lab 1 Eclipse project.
//
So start poking around!
//
All of the examples in the `src/main/java` folder can be run, although you
should be sure to choose "Run as Java Application" the first time you run them.

Here is our suggested order of how you explore the files, along with some notes
about possible extensions or modifications to each that you may want to try.
//
Don't get too bogged down on any one, and overall have fun!

==== `HelloWorld.java`

This one is pretty simple. See if you can:

. change the greeting message

==== `OnceUponAWhile.java`

This example is a bit more complicated. See if you can:

. change the color of the text that is displayed
//
. slow down the fade-out that happens toward the end

==== To Flip or Not to Flip

Together `SpriteMoveFlipBuffer.java` and `SpriteMoveNoFlipBuffer.java` introduce
you to an important concept in graphical rendering known as
//
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multiple_buffering[_buffer swapping_]
//
footnote:[Or buffer _flipping_].
//
See if you can:

. convince yourself of why these two very similar examples behave differently
//
. explain the reason for buffer swapping to your partner

==== `ColorOvalsIf.java`

This is the first example that uses locations input by the user using the mouse.
//
See if you can:

. have it wait for two clicks before drawing
//
. change the shape that is drawn

==== `Paint.java`

Here we use some randomness.
//
See if you can:

. understand how the random numbers are being generated
//
. slow down the rate at which random squares are drawn
//
. draw within a circular, rather than square, distance of the current location

==== `BouncingBall.java`

This example has some physics to it!
//
See if you can:

. understand how the new positions are being computed
//
. increase the resolution of the drawing&mdash;or, put another way, decrease the
gaps between the drawn positions

==== `ReactionTimer.java`

Here's a game to play!
//
See if you can outperform your partner&mdash;but also see if you can;

. determine whether there seems to be a fundamental lower bound on your reaction
time
//
. use that to argue in favor of self-driving cars

==== `ArrowKeys.java`

This example shows how to use the arrow keys as input.
//
See if you can:

. use other keys as up down and sideways
//
. change the amount that our little friend moves

==== `Valentine.java`

Just a nice message from the course staff.
//
See if you can:

. have the image come in and leave from the same direction
//
. center the text at the bottom
//
. exit after the message repeats a few times

==== `NearlyAllMethods.java`

The kitchen sink!
//
Good for exploration.
//
Just muck around a bit and have fun.

==== `Advanced2DGraphics.java`

This example gives you some taste of the underlying graphics abstraction that
the Zen library is simplifying for you.
//
Access to the raw canvas is very powerful, but can make your code more complex
or repetitive.

=== Challenge: Publishing Your Work

When using Git you can save your work in the same way that you are already used
to&mdash;by generated a commit using the Eclipse Team dialog.
//
But unlike Subversion, Git commits do not change the remote repository.
//
When you initially added the project, Git created a copy of our GitHub
repository on your local machine.
//
When you commit, changes are stored there and not on the remote repository.

To save your changes remotely Git requires an additional step called a _push_.
//
However, you will _not_ be able to push to our remote repository.
//
Why?
//
Because even though it's public and anybody can use it, only course staff can
write to it.

However, if you want to save your changes to your own GitHub repository that is
completely possible.
//
We'll leave that to you to figure out&mdash;although an audio walk through
follows.

++++
<div class="embed-responsive mt-3" style="width:100%; height:100px;">
<iframe src="//www.youtube.com/embed/gkcvydMg8uU?rel=0&autohide=0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>
++++

Commit message:

New questions and comments about representation.

src/lab/1.adoc, after:

---
title: "Binary and Graphics"
description:
  Get practice with binary and computer data representation. Then explore some
  examples of graphic programs using a simple graphics library.
priority: 0.5
changefreq: monthly
layout: single.hbt
spelling_exceptions:
  - futz
  - Lawrence Angrave
  - Lab1
sidebar: lab
---

:sectnums:
:linkattrs:

[.lead]
//
This lab starts by exploring the basics of how computers represent
information&mdash;including binary notation.
//
It continues by exploring how to create computer graphics in Java using a
simple graphics library.

[[binary]]
== Binary Games [.text-muted]#(50 Minutes)#

[.lead]
//
Let's learn more about binary and how computers represent numbers and other
kinds of data.

Complete this part of the lab in pairs using Google Docs.
//
Create a copy of https://goo.gl/6biwZU[our document template], and then edit it
to record you and your partner's answers.
//
Have a course staff member check your answers as you go.
//
When you are done, move on to the next section.

'''

[[zen]]
== Graphical Exploration [.text-muted]#(60 Minutes)#

[.lead]
//
Now let's experiment with some Java code!

These examples use the Zen graphics library authored by Illinois CS faculty
member
//
https://cs.illinois.edu/directory/profile/angrave[Lawrence Angrave].
//
You can find the
//
https://github.com/cs125-illinois/Zen[Zen source code]
//
and
//
https://cs125-illinois.github.io/Zen/[documentation]
//
on https://github.com/[GitHub].

Work with _a different partner_ as you explore the Zen library and its
capabilities.

=== Thinking About Representation

The first half of the lab was all about representation: how computers represent
numbers, letters, colors, and other kind of data using just 1s and 0s.
//
As you continue the second part of the lab, keep thinking about representation.
//
What kind of things does the Zen library have to represent?
//
And how do you represent those things numerically?

=== Cloning the Lab1 Eclipse Project

++++
<div class="row justify-content-center mt-3 mb-3">
  <div class="col-12 col-lg-8">
    <div class="embed-responsive embed-responsive-4by3">
      <iframe class="embed-responsive-item" width="560" height="315" src="//www.youtube.com/embed/DjuoOQWrjVc" allowfullscreen></iframe>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>
++++

We've set up an Eclipse Project that's correctly configured for Lab 1.
//
The only problem is&mdash;it's on
https://github.com/cs125-illinois/Lab1[_GitHub_].
//
This is intentional.
//
Although we're using Subversion this semester, we wanted to give you a chance to
practice importing a project in another way.
//
But don't worry, we'll walk you through the steps required to get a local copy
of it below.
//
And Eclipse already has great Git integration, so there are no plugins to futz
around with.

. In Eclipse, open "File &rarr; Import &rarr; Git &rarr; Projects from Git"
//
. Choose "Clone URI". This will allow us to retrieve a repository from a remote
URL, in this case one pointing to GitHub.
//
. Go to https://github.com/cs125-illinois/Lab1[this GitHub link]. Click on
"Clone or Download", make sure that "Clone with HTTPS" is selected, and copy the
URL to your clipboard.
//
It should be this one:
//
link:https://github.com/cs125-illinois/Lab1.git[https://github.com/cs125-illinois/Lab1.git, role="noclick link_exception"].
//
. Copy that link into the "URI" field in the open Eclipse dialog. All other
required fields should be populated for you.
//
. Click next and choose to work with the master branch, which should be selected
by default.
//
. Pick a directory where you want to store these files and click next.
//
. Leave "Import existing Eclipse projects" selected and click next.
//
. At this point you should be able to click "Finish" and start working with our
Lab1 project in Eclipse.

=== Graphical Explorations

At this point you should have a working copy of our Lab 1 Eclipse project.
//
So start poking around!
//
All of the examples in the `src/main/java` folder can be run, although you
should be sure to choose "Run as Java Application" the first time you run them.

Here is our suggested order of how you explore the files, along with some notes
about possible extensions or modifications to each that you may want to try.
//
Don't get too bogged down on any one, and overall have fun!

==== `HelloWorld.java`

This one is pretty simple. See if you can:

. change the greeting message

==== `OnceUponAWhile.java`

This example is a bit more complicated. See if you can:

. change the color of the text that is displayed
//
. slow down the fade-out that happens toward the end

==== To Flip or Not to Flip

Together `SpriteMoveFlipBuffer.java` and `SpriteMoveNoFlipBuffer.java` introduce
you to an important concept in graphical rendering known as
//
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multiple_buffering[_buffer swapping_]
//
footnote:[Or buffer _flipping_].
//
See if you can:

. convince yourself of why these two very similar examples behave differently
//
. explain the reason for buffer swapping to your partner

==== `ColorOvalsIf.java`

This is the first example that uses locations input by the user using the mouse.
//
See if you can:

. have it wait for two clicks before drawing
//
. change the shape that is drawn
//
. determine how Zen represents this kind of shape

==== `Paint.java`

Here we use some randomness.
//
See if you can:

. understand how the random numbers are being generated
//
. slow down the rate at which random squares are drawn
//
. draw within a circular, rather than square, distance of the current location

==== `BouncingBall.java`

This example has some physics to it!
//
See if you can:

. understand how the new positions are being computed
//
. increase the resolution of the drawing&mdash;or, put another way, decrease the
gaps between the drawn positions

==== `ReactionTimer.java`

Here's a game to play!
//
See if you can outperform your partner&mdash;but also see if you can;

. determine whether there seems to be a fundamental lower bound on your reaction
time
//
. use that to argue in favor of self-driving cars

==== `ArrowKeys.java`

This example shows how to use the arrow keys as input.
//
See if you can:

. use other keys as up down and sideways
//
. change the amount that our little friend moves

==== `Valentine.java`

Just a nice message from the course staff.
//
See if you can:

. have the image come in and leave from the same direction
//
. center the text at the bottom
//
. exit after the message repeats a few times
//
. understand how Zen represents text

==== `NearlyAllMethods.java`

The kitchen sink!
//
Good for exploration.
//
Just muck around a bit and have fun.

==== `Advanced2DGraphics.java`

This example gives you some taste of the underlying graphics abstraction that
the Zen library is simplifying for you.
//
Access to the raw canvas is very powerful, but can make your code more complex
or repetitive.

=== Challenge: Publishing Your Work

When using Git you can save your work in the same way that you are already used
to&mdash;by generated a commit using the Eclipse Team dialog.
//
But unlike Subversion, Git commits do not change the remote repository.
//
When you initially added the project, Git created a copy of our GitHub
repository on your local machine.
//
When you commit, changes are stored there and not on the remote repository.

To save your changes remotely Git requires an additional step called a _push_.
//
However, you will _not_ be able to push to our remote repository.
//
Why?
//
Because even though it's public and anybody can use it, only course staff can
write to it.

However, if you want to save your changes to your own GitHub repository that is
completely possible.
//
We'll leave that to you to figure out&mdash;although an audio walk through
follows.

++++
<div class="embed-responsive mt-3" style="width:100%; height:100px;">
<iframe src="//www.youtube.com/embed/gkcvydMg8uU?rel=0&autohide=0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>
++++
